{\rtf1\ansi\deff0
{\fonttbl{\f0 Times New Roman;}}
\fs24

\b 2 Dynamic Switching Voltage Measurements (Experiment 1)\b0\par
\par

\b 2.1 Aim of the experiment\b0\par
This experiment investigates time-critical voltage measurements in a fast-switching GaN-based DC/DC converter. The work focuses on capturing switching-node waveforms, quantifying key edge parameters, and assessing how probe choice and oscilloscope settings can distort the observation. The main goals are:\par
\par
\uc1\u8226  Record the switching-node voltage of the GaN converter under defined operating conditions.\par
\uc1\u8226  Characterize the switching transition using rise/fall times and peak over-/undershoot.\par
\uc1\u8226  Differentiate intrinsic switching behavior from measurement-induced artifacts.\par
\uc1\u8226  Evaluate bandwidth demands for probes and the oscilloscope when measuring steep edges.\par
\uc1\u8226  Measure the gate-resistor voltage and derive the gate charge of the integrated high- and low-side devices in a half-bridge arrangement.\par
\par

\b 2.2 Preparatory Questions\b0\par
To ensure a meaningful measurement and interpretation, the following points were addressed:\par
\par
1. Which probe properties (input capacitance, input resistance, bandwidth, grounding method) most strongly influence the measured Vsw waveform?\par
2. How can parasitic inductance in the ground connection and probe capacitance create resonances that appear as ringing?\par
3. Which criteria can be used to judge whether observed oscillations originate from the circuit or from the measurement setup?\par
4. How do probe and oscilloscope bandwidth limits bias the apparent rise/fall time and peak values?\par
5. Under which conditions is differential probing preferred over single-ended probing at the switching node?\par
6. Why is the high-side gate measurement especially sensitive to common-mode disturbances, and what practical implications follow from this?\par
7. How is gate charge obtained from the gate-resistor voltage, and which assumptions and error sources must be stated?\par
\par

\b 2.3 Measurement Procedure\b0\par
\par
\b 2.3.1 Measurement of the voltage at the switching node with different probes\b0\par
\b Setup and preparation\b0\par
A half-bridge GaN power stage was operated with dedicated supplies for the gate driver and DC-link. A function generator provided PWM excitation, and an oscilloscope acquired the switching-node voltage. Prior to energizing the DC-link, the driver supply, signal generation, and connections were verified to reduce the risk of wiring errors and unintended short circuits.\par
\par
\b Execution (overview)\b0\par
1. Verify all interconnections (motherboard, DUT, supplies, and probing points).\par
2. Configure and enable the driver-supply source.\par
3. Configure and enable the PWM generator (frequency and duty cycle as specified).\par
4. Configure the DC-link supply but keep it disabled until the measurement chain is ready.\par
5. Connect the probe under test to Vsw using the recommended reference technique for that probe type (differential vs. single-ended).\par
6. Set the oscilloscope input termination according to the probe specification (e.g., 1 Mohm or 50 ohm).\par
7. Select an appropriate trigger (edge trigger and level) and verify stable acquisition.\par
8. Acquire a waveform (single capture), stop acquisition, and export the data for evaluation.\par
9. Repeat the measurement for each probe configuration and keep oscilloscope settings consistent where possible to enable comparison.\par
\par
\b Extracted quantities\b0\par
The following characteristics are evaluated from each waveform:\par
\par
\uc1\u8226  Rise time tr (10%\u8211 90% of the transition, IEEE definition)\par
\uc1\u8226  Fall time tf (90%\u8211 10% of the transition, IEEE definition)\par
\uc1\u8226  VPK+ (maximum overshoot above the steady-state level)\par
\uc1\u8226  VPK- (minimum undershoot below the steady-state level)\par
\uc1\u8226  Ringing quality (qualitative assessment of amplitude and decay)\par
\par

\b 2.3.2 Measurement of the voltage across gate resistor and determination of the gate charge of integrated high- and low-side transistors\b0\par
\b Objective\b0\par
The gate charge of the integrated devices is determined by measuring the voltage drop across the gate resistor and converting it to gate current, which is then integrated over time.\par
\par
\b Parameter\b0\par
Gate resistor: Rg = 3.3 ohm\par
\par
\b Evaluation principle\b0\par
The instantaneous gate current is obtained from the measured resistor voltage uRg(t):\par
ig(t) = uRg(t) / Rg.\par
The gate charge is then calculated by numerical integration:\par
Qg = integral ig(t) dt = (1/Rg) integral uRg(t) dt.\par
\par
\b Measurement plan\b0\par
Gate-charge measurements are carried out at 15 V, 20 V, and 30 V gate-drive conditions for both device types (EPC2202 and GS61008T) and for both switching positions (high side and low side). Exported waveforms are post-processed to obtain Qg,HS and Qg,LS. The influence of probe capacitance (order of 1 pF) is considered as a systematic error source and is discussed as a limitation.\par
\par

\b 2.4 Results\b0\par
\par
\b 2.4.1 Measurement Evaluation for Part 1 (switching node voltage with different probes)\b0\par
\b Waveform documentation\b0\par
Switching-node waveforms were recorded for each probe configuration. The rising and falling transitions were inspected, and the characteristic parameters were identified. The exported plots from the repository are inserted here to document the qualitative differences between probe types.\par
\par
\b Comparison table (placeholders)\b0\par
The numerical values are summarized below; the entries are left as placeholders until values are extracted from the waveforms.\par
\par
\trowd\trgaph108\trleft0
\cellx3000\cellx4200\cellx5400\cellx6600\cellx7800\cellx9300
\intbl\b Probe\b0\cell
\intbl\b tr [ns]\b0\cell
\intbl\b VPK+ [V]\b0\cell
\intbl\b tf [ns]\b0\cell
\intbl\b VPK- [V]\b0\cell
\intbl\b Ringing Quality\b0\cell\row

\trowd\trgaph108\trleft0
\cellx3000\cellx4200\cellx5400\cellx6600\cellx7800\cellx9300
\intbl Differential probe Pico (High-Z)\cell
\intbl TBD\cell
\intbl TBD\cell
\intbl TBD\cell
\intbl TBD\cell
\intbl TBD\cell\row

\trowd\trgaph108\trleft0
\cellx3000\cellx4200\cellx5400\cellx6600\cellx7800\cellx9300
\intbl Passive probe with spring clip (High-Z)\cell
\intbl TBD\cell
\intbl TBD\cell
\intbl TBD\cell
\intbl TBD\cell
\intbl TBD\cell\row

\trowd\trgaph108\trleft0
\cellx3000\cellx4200\cellx5400\cellx6600\cellx7800\cellx9300
\intbl Passive probe (Low-Z)\cell
\intbl TBD\cell
\intbl TBD\cell
\intbl TBD\cell
\intbl TBD\cell
\intbl TBD\cell\row

\trowd\trgaph108\trleft0
\cellx3000\cellx4200\cellx5400\cellx6600\cellx7800\cellx9300
\intbl Passive probe (High Voltage)\cell
\intbl TBD\cell
\intbl TBD\cell
\intbl TBD\cell
\intbl TBD\cell
\intbl TBD\cell\row
\par

\b Interpretation and discussion (Part 1)\b0\par
The recorded waveforms indicate that probe selection strongly impacts the apparent ringing, overshoot, and even the perceived edge speed. In particular, single-ended probing can introduce additional loop inductance through the ground connection, which can resonate with probe capacitance and present as pronounced oscillations after the transition. Differential probing reduces ground-reference related errors and is generally better suited for high dV/dt nodes.\par
\par
Low-impedance (low-Z) probing changes the loading of the measured node. While this can suppress certain oscillations, it may also modify the circuit behavior and can reduce the allowable measurable voltage range. Consequently, the measured waveform must be interpreted as a combination of the actual node behavior and the measurement chain transfer characteristics.\par
\par
Finally, bandwidth constraints of the probe and oscilloscope limit the ability to resolve steep edges. Insufficient bandwidth typically leads to underestimated peak values and artificially increased rise/fall times. These limitations are considered when comparing the extracted parameters between probe configurations.\par
\par

\b 2.4.2 Measurement Evaluation for Part 2 (gate charge determination)\b0\par
\b Method summary\b0\par
Gate charge is obtained from the measured gate-resistor voltage by converting the voltage drop to gate current using Rg = 3.3 ohm and integrating the resulting current over the transition interval. The evaluation is repeated for 15 V, 20 V, and 30 V operation and for both EPC2202 and GS61008T in high-side and low-side operation.\par
\par
\b Result tables (placeholders)\b0\par
\b EPC2202\b0\par
\trowd\trgaph108\trleft0
\cellx2500\cellx5500\cellx8500
\intbl\b Gate Voltage\b0\cell
\intbl\b Qg,HS\b0\cell
\intbl\b Qg,LS\b0\cell\row
\trowd\trgaph108\trleft0
\cellx2500\cellx5500\cellx8500
\intbl 15 V\cell\intbl TBD\cell\intbl TBD\cell\row
\trowd\trgaph108\trleft0
\cellx2500\cellx5500\cellx8500
\intbl 20 V\cell\intbl TBD\cell\intbl TBD\cell\row
\trowd\trgaph108\trleft0
\cellx2500\cellx5500\cellx8500
\intbl 30 V\cell\intbl TBD\cell\intbl TBD\cell\row
\par

\b GS61008T\b0\par
\trowd\trgaph108\trleft0
\cellx2500\cellx5500\cellx8500
\intbl\b Gate Voltage\b0\cell
\intbl\b Qg,HS\b0\cell
\intbl\b Qg,LS\b0\cell\row
\trowd\trgaph108\trleft0
\cellx2500\cellx5500\cellx8500
\intbl 15 V\cell\intbl TBD\cell\intbl TBD\cell\row
\trowd\trgaph108\trleft0
\cellx2500\cellx5500\cellx8500
\intbl 20 V\cell\intbl TBD\cell\intbl TBD\cell\row
\trowd\trgaph108\trleft0
\cellx2500\cellx5500\cellx8500
\intbl 30 V\cell\intbl TBD\cell\intbl TBD\cell\row
\par

\b Discussion and limitations (Part 2)\b0\par
The derived gate charge depends on the accuracy of the gate-resistor voltage measurement and on the chosen integration window. High-side measurements are especially susceptible to common-mode interference due to the rapidly moving reference potential. In addition, probe capacitance (approximately 1 pF) can introduce displacement currents under high dV/dt conditions, which can bias the apparent gate current and thus the integrated charge. These effects are documented and considered when comparing Qg values across operating points and device types.\par

}
